
# The Project

This GitHub repository is the base for any and all files pertaining to my research project entitled:
> An Investigation into the Majapahit Geopolitical Model: Parallels between the Majapahit Empire and the Modern Australian State, with a Large-Scale Game-Theoretic Agentic Simulation of a Proposed Systemic Model Of Australia in the Next 50 Years

## Introductions

My project aims to bring together the study of the past in all of its forms, History, as well as modern areas of study like Politics, International Relations, and Artificial Intelligence in Computing. By studying Majapahit, we can implement several new policies and strategies to ensure Australia's place in the ever-changing world, and protect the safety and futures of her citizens. Majapahit was the major thalassocratic empire that dominated Indonesia, parts of Malaysia and the Phillipines through economic, trade, and maritime prowess. Its similarities to Australia are striking. Majapahit and Australia have close geographically, both being islands and having interactions and outreach over larger distances through alliances, trade, and proximity. Internally, Majapahit was a rare syncretic society, blening Hindu and Buddhist beliefs and practices into a coherent society. It also had a proportianally large foreign population of traders, diplomats, and travellers, many of who interacted with or sat in the royal court. Due to the difficulties traversing the terrain of inner Java, the Majapahit Empire had less control over the hinterland. Similarly, Australia's population, political power, and major infrastructure is mostly concentrated in coastal cities. The interior is sparsely populated and much more autonomous. 

## Modern Relevance 

Contrasted with the majority of historical-social studies, my project has direct modern relevance. From systemic studies from Majapahit - and focused study on Maritime Strategy, Social Infrastructre and other important bits - and comparisons with modern Australia using Mill's Methods of Agreement and Difference I am going to pull key conclusions and recommendations for Australia for the next 50 years. Then I will use an API AI service, most likely Claude AI, to simulate a complex social system. These agents will have to receive information, think about it, and react to it. Some agents will include but not be limited to the Department of Prime Minister & Cabinet, The RBA, The Treasury, The Department of Defence (including the Australian Defence Force), Minerals Council of Australia (representing mining sector and including companies such as BHP and Rio Tinto), The Office of Natural Intelligence (which encompasses data from all intelligence agencies like ASIO/ASIS/Department of Defence), the U.S.A, China, and Pacific Islands Forum.

## More On the Tech

Even the most frontier LLMs have the capability to hallucinate or generate bias from their training data. A 2026 study from Keyu Li, Jin Gao, and Dequan Wang has shown that mistakes by Large Language Models in reasoning are often amplified when they are used as part of a Multi-Agent System, challenging the previous hypothesis that more complex and numerous agenta working on a single problem means there is less chance for hallucination. Instead Li et al. introduce the concept of echo chambers, where a single mistake or bias from training data can be echoed across other LLM agents in the system, affecting the final output dramatically more than with a singular agent running the simulation and making the origin of the error much harder to find. For that reason I have introduced sime other systems into my simulation. First, a "referee layer" is a master agent that controls the flow of information to other agents, in order to simulate the real world as much as possible. This referee layer is also the termination point for each simulation round, meaning the data is filtered through it. The referee layer can also identify answers out of place. However, in order to keep this a simulation instead of a machine operating within set rule boundaries, it has the power to allow these outputs. Each agent provides reasoning with every action, meaning the data can be interpreted. 

Another safeguard to prevent a biased or hallucinated result is the presentation of data. I propose a simple HTML web-based system that allows me to go through each agent in every round, meaning I can interpret where cracks began to appear in the simulation, use reasoning and historical data to back up my final results, and compare the modified Australia against the baseline at every step. Agents MUST provide raw reasoning in order to evaluate training bias. A key limitation is that the "thinking" provided in many responses is a simplified, smoothed out interpretation made after the model has formulated the response. The closest that we can come to observing the "thinking" of the model is to have it use a scratchpad, list every single reference or assumed information used, and provide detailed reasoning for every action, as well as possible alternatives and why they were dismissed. 

To better simulate real-world changes, actions by each agent can be multiplied in a "ripple effect." I call these assymetic multipliers and the reasnoning behind them is that an action made by the PM&C has a larger impact on all other agents than an action made by the Minerals Council of Australia. The referee layer can decide what multiplier any actions has, because different actions by any agent can affect others differently. This is also a major reason for having "rounds".

The simulation begins with a baseline Australia. Any changes that I plan to implement in the modified Australia don't begin immediately, instead taking time as in reality. So the further along in timelines, the more prominent differences between the Baseline and Modified Australia should become. However the simulation behaves in rounds, where information is given by the referee layer, the agents receive, reason, and provide a response, and the information is gathered by the referee layer, which then assembles the fragments its given and adjusts the full picture it had before by modifying where neccessary. Then the cycle is repeated. This allows the human interpreting data to also move back by each round and go through each agents reasoning, making my scientific case more robust. 

